# appBuilder

Schemas for a low-code application generator.

This repository contains four schema sets that can be used to create an application generation system.

These schemas use concepts from MongoDB and the Meteor framework, and have additional code that can be used in a Meteor app-gen tool, but are intended to be language neutral for the generated application.

Our schemas are:

componentDef

The schemas in componentDef are the basic structures used to define UI elements.  In here are schemas for the properties and the parent-child relationships of components.  The relationships structure allows for the creation of things like forms, tables and anything requiring combinations for primary elements (text boxes, buttons, images, etc.)  The steps array contains the process for generating this component in an application.

uiDef

uiDef has schemas to be used by the GUI or other tools which assist a user in defining an application.  Many of the schemas here could actually be defined as objects using the componentDef schemas.  Still need to think that through... 

buildDef

This is the logic to generate an application.  A buildSchema is a set of steps to transform an appSchema into an application.  The core of the schema is the steps array.  Each step is a command to the 'compiler/generator' with a verb and parameters.  Since the sequences of pairs in a json structures are not fixed, we use a 'then' pair to define sequences.  There is a real risk this leads to stack issues, so may need to change to something like an 'order' property.  

buildSchema was defined with the view that an application is generated by:
 - copying a template of folders and files into the target location
 - generating new folders/files when needed for each component in the appSchema
 - replacing tags in the templates with values pulled/computed from the appDef 

appDef

appDef has the actual definition of the application to be generated.  There is a one-to-one ratio between appDef records, using the appSchema, and created applications.
